Earnings Call TranscriptEarnings Call Transcript2018-Q1Guidance5Acquisition2Revenue9Free Cash Flow2Return on Equity1from
			0OperatorLadies and gentlemen, colleagues, good morning, and welcome to our conference call of BMW AG first quarter 2018. We have here have Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG; and Dr. Nicolas Peter, member of the Board of Management AG, In-Charge of Finance. The gentlemen will start by giving you an overview of the development of business and after that you'll be given an opportunity to ask your questions. So Harald Kruger has the floor.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOGood morning, ladies and gentlemen. The first quarter of 2018 continues to build on our successful 2017 financial year and the BMW Group remains the world's most profitable car company in the world. This underscores our core philosophy. We continue to chart our own core season in a volatile environment, that's our foundation on which we shape future mobility with NUMBER ONE > NEXT. We've got a clear strategy for that. We have once again set the bar even higher with our goals for the current financial year. We're targeting a slight increase in automotive deliveries and a new all-time high. Group earnings before tax at the same high level as last year and an EBIT margin in the Automotive segment within our target range of 8% to 10%. After the first 3 months, we are right on track. For the first time, we delivered more than 600,000 vehicles in the first quarter. Our BMW MINI and BMW Motorrad brands all achieved new first quarter sales highs. We made gains in all major market regions, Asia, including China; Europe including Germany; and the Americas, including the U.S. Our EBIT margin in the Automotive segment is at the high end of our target range at 9.7%. At the same time and to believe this is crucial, we are continuing to invest in our future. We are tackling several key areas at the same time. We will continue to expand the electrification of our portfolio. We will be launching various new models and we're accelerating our autonomous driving activities.First a few words about electrification. I've often said e-mobility growth curve is exponential. This is concerned also by our sales figures for the first quarter compared with the first 3 months of the last year. Between January and March, we sold over 1/3 more electrified vehicles. Sales of our BMW iPerformance plug-in hybrids are up to more than 40%. Our MINI Countryman with plug-in hybrid drivetrain is also in strong demand. In U.S., demand for BMW i, BMW iPerformance and MINI Electric vehicles increased by an impressive 78% during this period. I have stated our goal for the full year very clearly. We aim to sell at least 140,000 electrified vehicles this year. Our new models will help us to achieve this. I'm talking, of course, about the BMW i8 Roadster, very emotional car, and the revised BMW i8 Coupe, which will be launched in May. Both come with the 4th generation of the BMW eDrive technology for plug-in hybrids. This enhances significantly their electric range. You already know that we plan to offer 25 electrified models by 2025, 12 of them purely electric. You can already see what lies ahead this year. We will be presenting 3 all-electric concept vehicles; our new technology flagship, the BMW iNEXT; the BMW i4 as affordable Coupe; and the first fully electric vehicle of our core brand will be the BMW iX3, which I will present -- which I presented in China this April. All these vehicles will go into series production over the next 2 years. The BMW iNext combines the key technologies for future mobility, innovative design, brings these technologies to life.It serves as a modular kit and an innovative enabler for all our future vehicles within the group. We're building the iNext and i4 here in Germany in Dingolfing and in Munich, respectively. On one hand, we're clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in Germany. On the other hand, we're focusing on China, as it is the world's biggest market and a real driving force in e-mobility. Through this, we are sending a strong signal for sustainable mobility in China. From 2020, we will be producing our first fully-electric BMW iX3 in Shenyang, which will be the start of using purely electric drivetrains within our core brand. The iX3 will be the first to use our first-generation electric drivetrains. Our customers in China already have 6 electrified models to choose from today. And they also have access to the world's largest network of public charging points. By the end of this year alone, there will be 80,000 ChargeNow charging points in more than 100 cities.We also plan to build pure electric MINI vehicles in China in the future. For this reason, we signed a letter of intent with Great Wall Motor to create a second joint venture in China. And we will continue to work successfully with our joint venture partner BBA, which is now in its 15th year. Now, we'll be adding another local model, the new BMW X3. Starting in summer, this model will also be produced in China, as well as in Spartanburg, in U.S. and in Rosslyn, South Africa to meet worldwide high demand. The xDrive X3 brings the number of BMW models produced in China to 6. With our local partners, the long-term focus is on creating a win-win situation for everyone. China has signaled plans to eliminate tariffs and to open it's also auto-market further. Global thinking and global acting are what have made the BMW Group successful. Our business approach has always been based on free trade and open markets. Customs, duties and trade barriers only divide the world into regions and are not conducive towards global prosperity and worldwide economic development. That is why we will continue to advocate for customs duties to be dismantled. My second point, new models.We're in the middle of Phase 2 of our model initiatives, where the focus is in Luxury and X family. We are in high margins in the segment. Our initiatives were actually from major boost over the coming months from the new BMW X2, the new X4, the BMW X series Coupe, which launches 8 Series range with a total of 6 models. Model updates to 3- and 5-door MINIs and MINI Convertible and the new Rolls-Royce Phantom.Earlier this year, I made a point to meet with our dealers in the U.S. and China. We show them our new models for the coming months. The dealers in both countries, ladies and gentlemen, were extremely pleased, and I could hardly wait to have these new models in their showrooms. New products and new technologies go hand-in-hand with us. And that brings me to my third point, autonomous driving. In April, we officially opened our autonomous driving campus outside Munich. We intend to play a leading role in autonomous driving. And safety remains the absolute priority for us in this technological advancement. Our iNext, which we will launch in 2021, will be fully electric and completely connected. It will not only be partially autonomous but also completely safe. The iNext will be followed by a whole range of additional highly-automated models. For this reason, we're combining all our expertise in the vehicle connectivity and automated driving at the new campus. We'll also be introducing new forms of calibration in a highly-flexible working environment designed for quick decision making. Our new campuses bear the proof that the customers at the center of all that we do to build a base of 100 million active customers by 2025, we will need a complete ecosystem that provides an all-round service to fulfill all our customers' demands need. To strengthen our mobility services, we're combining our business area with those of Daimler AG in a planned joint venture, we'll combine both on-demand mobility offerings on an equal footing. Together we will define the development of services and digitalization in our industry. We wanted to take our customers' experience of premium mobility beyond the vehicle.Ladies and gentlemen, if you can see, we're taking a clear holistic approach towards bringing future mobility into the lives of our customers. And I remain confident that the BMW Group will be in the forefront of these future advancements within our industry and beyond. This is the message I would share with our shareholders at the AGM in 2 weeks' time. And 2018 is set to become another record year. Thank you.OperatorThat was Mr. Kruger. Thank you. Now over to Dr. Peter.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardLadies and gentlemen, good morning. The BMW Group performed well in the first quarter, fulfilling all our expectations. Our positive operating performance shows our strategy is generating strong results. Group earnings again reached the same high level as last year. The EBIT margin in the Automotive segment rose to 9.7% despite higher R&D costs. We are well positioned in our target range of 8% to 10%.Segment EBIT is on par with the previous year despite high upfront investments and headwinds from currency and commodity prices. We already announced at the Annual Accounts Press Conference that our R&D spending for this year will reach a new record high. We're investing in future projects and expanding our innovation leadership. R&D costs increased by over EUR 100 million in the first quarter.As planned, we were able to partially offset this additional expenditure with internal efficiency improvements. However, as already announced in March, we will see a significant increase in costs in the second half of the year. Negative impact on currency and commodity prices dampened earnings. For the full year, we expect a headwind in the mid- to high 3-digit million euro range due to various economic and political conditions.As part of the transition to the new IFRS 15 accounting standard, certain comparative figures from the previous year had to be adjusted. You will find more details on this in the current quarterly report. First, let's take a closer look at the group figures. First quarter revenues decreased to EUR 22.69 billion. Adjusted for negative currency effects, they were approximately on par with the previous year. Group earnings before tax totaled EUR 3.17 billion, which is on par with the high level of the previous year. The EBT margin was 13.9%. The higher financial result reflects the positive earnings contribution of our Chinese joint venture and valuation effects from the acquisition of DriveNow among other factors. In line with the strong business performance, Group net profit rose slightly to EUR 2.3 billion.Ladies and gentlemen, we are strengthening our product portfolio this year. This includes renewing and expanding X family as well as our product initiatives in the Luxury segment. When it comes to future technologies, we are also competing in the Champions League. Our newly opened autonomous driving campus and our battery cell competence center underline this commitment. Flexibility is an essential component of this. It is what makes us robust and competitive. As part of our continuing strategic development, we invested almost EUR 130 million more in the first quarter than in the same period of 2017, a total investment of around EUR 734 million. As a result, the CapEx ratio rose to 3.2%. For the full year, we expect the ratio of up to 5%. We will therefore continue to remain within our long-term target range.As announced, R&D expenditure also remained at a high level. It totaled EUR 1.27 billion for the year to the end of March. Due to high upfront investments in new products and technologies, we expect this figure to reach around EUR 7 billion over the course of the year. The R&D ratio currently stands at 5.6%; the figure for the full-year 2018 will be between 6.5% and 7%.Let's take a look at the Automotive segment. In the first quarter of 2018, global sales performed well, increasing by 3%. A strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than the previous year. Adjusted for currency effects, revenues were up 1.5%. The segment EBIT of EUR 1.88 billion was on par with the previous year, despite higher R&D costs and headwinds from currency and commodity prices. This was offset somewhat by positive effects from volume mix, market and efficiency improvements. The financial results once again contributed to the positive pre-tax earnings.Our Chinese joint venture, BBA, increased its earnings contribution to EUR 240 million. Sales in the joint venture climbed 20% in the year to the end of March. The X1 and the new 5 Series, in particular, are highly popular. The valuation effect from the acquisition of DriveNow also had a positive effect. This was offset by a similarly high positive valuation effect from the previous year in connection with new investors acquiring a stake in the marketing service here. Pre-tax earnings amounted to EUR 2.28 billion.Ladies and gentlemen, these figures underline that our core business is built on a very solid foundation. At the end of the first quarter, despite a planned significantly higher accumulation of working capital, free cash flow stood at EUR 302 million. For the full year, we continue to target a free cash flow of more than EUR 3 billion. In the Financial Services segment, the total portfolio of customer financing contracts reached almost EUR 5 million. In the first quarter, 47.3% of all BMW Group new vehicles were leased or financed by the Financial Services segment. Almost 452,000 new contracts were concluded with retail customers. The segment's risk situation remains stable.Overall, used car prices are trending downward slightly in international markets as expected. We place a strong emphasis on proactive risk management. We evaluate our portfolio on a regular basis so that we can make adequate provisions for our business risks at all times.Let's now move on to the Motorcycles segment. Almost 36,000 motorcycles were delivered to customers in the first 3 months of 2018. Revenues were 15.5% lower than the previous year at EUR 524 million. Due to the ramp-up of new models, including the impact of various model changeovers, total production declined in the first quarter. Consequently, sales to the retail organization, which forms the basis for revenue recognition, also decreased.Currency effects also had a negative impact. As a result to segment's operating earnings for the first quarter were lower than in the previous year. The EBIT margin was 14.7%.Now, the outlook for the full year. As long as political and economic conditions do not deteriorate significantly, we expect positive business development in 2018. We are targeting Group earnings before tax at least on par with the high level of the previous year. In late March, BMW AG and Daimler AG signed an agreement to combine their mobility services. If approved by the relevant authorities in the course of this year, the formation of the joint venture will trigger a one-time valuation and earnings effect in the BMW AG's Group financial statement and thus leads to an adjustment of the company's guidance. Under these circumstances, pre-tax earnings on group level would increase slightly in 2018 compared with the previous year.In the Automotive segment, we anticipate a slight increase in deliveries and revenues for 2018. Despite high upfront investments, we still aim to keep the EBIT margin between 8% and 10%. We now expect a slight increase in deliveries in the Motorcycles segment in 2018. Our target for the EBIT margin remains unchanged at between 8% and 10%. In the Financial Services segment, we expect return on equity to exceed our new target figure of 14%.Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is on course to meet its guidance for the full year. In 2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And as you know, whatever we start is well thought through and we implement it sustainably. In such a volatile environment, our core business delivers the highest level of performance quarter-by-quarter. This gives us the freedom we need to continue investing in our future. Thank you.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOThank you, Mr. Peter, colleagues. We now have time to take your questions. I'd like to ask colleagues to provide you with the technical details for the conference.Operator[Operator Instructions] First question, Edward Taylor, Reuters.EEdward TaylorTwo questions. Can you tell me something about possible depreciation of the leasing portfolio in connection with diesel? Can you quantify it? And second question, Mr. Kruger, over the course of the year, you wanted to give us an update on possible plant in Russia, any news on this?HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, question was about the plant in Russia. We are in ongoing discussions with the province and the government in Kaliningrad and the central government. Decision has not been taken yet. And our plans are making further progress. Well, decisions haven't been taken yet. I don't know yet when they will be taken.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardThe development on the used car markets in Europe in the first quarter 2018 was more or less as expected, similar as 2017, and especially in Germany and in England, we had a declining share of diesel cars. As you know, we systematically make extra provisions take precautions also in our Financial Services closing. So we had -- we saw no need to take extraordinary measures in the first quarter 2018. We do think we're right on track because we can see that the share of Euro 5 and 4 vehicles in the leasing portfolio decreases month by month. We've [ practically ] got no further Euro 4 vehicles in our portfolio and across all Europe, not just in relation to one market. We are at 2-digit thousand number in Europe as far as the Euro 4 diesels are concerned.Operator[indiscernible].UUnknown AnalystI have a question. It's about the investigations in the diesel case and the diesel fraud. How safe is our annual forecast in view of probable fines that might be imposed and which could be quite high?HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOI'll pass that to our CFO, Mr. Peter.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, Mr. [indiscernible], you already saw this in our annual accounts for 2017 due to the current situation. We are not able to make a forecast at all relating to this question. This is an ongoing investigation. We are cooperating with the authorities and as soon as there is any news then we would inform to public, of course.OperatorElisabeth Behrmann, Bloomberg News.EElisabeth BehrmannI have 3 questions. You mentioned currency effects and commodity prices as headwinds this year. Could you provide more details, how much of it is commodity prices, how much of it is currency effects and which commodities or raw materials specifically create the headwind? And then I'd like to know about the situation within the aluminum manufacturer, Rusal.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWhat's the name again?EElisabeth BehrmannRusal, where sanctions have been -- currently been imposed.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, to be honest, we haven't heard the name before -- Rusal?EElisabeth BehrmannI'm surprised that it doesn't mean anything to you, but whatever.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEONo, I must admit. I guess I can speak for everyone here. It's not an issue with us anyway. Now for the rest of the question or the first part of the question, I'd like to pass that to Mr. Peter.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, Ms. Behrmann, rough division between currency effects and raw materials, 2/3 currency, 1/3 commodity prices or raw materials. And for the materials, it's in particular, steel and plastics that have a negative impact.OperatorMarkus Fasse, Handelsblatt.MMarkus FasseI've got 2 questions. First question, how long do you still want to continue with your R&D expenses? They are significantly high; 2025 by then you want to have 12 new electrified models on the market. If I have understood you correctly, this year and next year, these expenses are to remain at a high level and then taper out. How do you want to do this, if you continue to launch that many new electrified models? That was my first question. Second question again relates to diesel. We've seen the judgment in [ Leipsic ] and after that the discussion somewhat slowed as far as driving bans are concerned. My question, what's your estimate of the situation? Bans on diesel cars, is that off the table, is that discussion over or will that discussion continue?HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, Mr. Fasse, on you question, the diesel bans, well, the judgment, if you read that closely, then it's all a question of proportionality which the court focused on. So in that respect, this is something that cities will then have to decide, based on the principle of proportionality, whether they want to introduce such bans or not. I've always said and the government also says that driving bans are the not right thing to do. We want to instead promote infrastructure for further electromobility, promote electromobility in generally and then we have an approach that is definitely more sustainable for Germany and the world. The second point, of course, the quality of the air in towns and cities over the past few months has improved. So the number of towns that are still relevant for such a ban is decreasing. So with concerted action, we can consistently pursue that path.OperatorThank you. Mr. Peter, on the R&D expenses?NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, Mr. Fasse, the point that you are mentioning, I think, it shows quite impressively the operative performance, strengths of our company. Despite all the expenses in R&D, we are able to establish ourselves in the upper range of our corridor between 8% and 10%. And we're also confirming the guidance for the current year. Why are we also optimistically looking into the future? So once the generation 5 is in the market, question is whether we can then somehow decrease our R&D expenditure. Well, there's 2 reasons for this assumption. We'll be launching models that have a strong contribution margin. And X3 has just been launched, X5 is coming towards the end of the year. Then, early next year, the X7; between that, there will be the 8. All of these are products in the upper price segment. And in addition, as already mentioned several times, we're also working on a number of efficiency measures and in particular, on the reduction of the complexity in our product portfolio and product offering. And this will have positive effects on R&D and it will also have positive effects on the entire value chain. Mr. Kruger, you're adding something.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOYes. I'd like to add something. I've already said this on the Annual Accounts Press Conference, we've got clear cost benefits changing to generation 5 and now, we've got a modular kit that we can use across all products and product lines. So we will be benefiting from economies of scales in electromobility.Operator[Indiscernible]UUnknown AnalystI've got 3 questions. The first one, as it take-back guarantee for diesel vehicles that you're currently using an advertising, did you have to make extra provisions for that or how do you calculate it? Do you expect you actually have to pay something? Then back to the diesel, Porsche currently wants to revise this type of drive, they are saying, its possible do this with fairly little effort. What are your talks with Porsche? Are you convinced of the concept? Will BMW implement the concept? And then have [indiscernible], you pointed out a couple times already today there is efficiency measures, which enable you to offset those high R&D expenses and also the currency effects headwind or if not offset at least limits. I wonder what exactly are these savings; perhaps you can explain that a little.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, as a starting point, let me say I have a very clear position. I still believe in the diesel technology as a technology for the future and if you look at our 520 or 530d, if you drive that today, it's one of the best diesels in the world. What Porsche has presented or suggested from my point of view is an interesting approach that we will further pursue that, we will have a look at, but we're not only talking with Porsche, the further development of the technology to us is always an important topic and also to do this with partners and there are certainly plenty of potential in this, that certainly something which we welcome. But we'll have to drill a little deeper and have more discussions, not only with Porsche, also with other companies on how we further develop diesel, but for CO2, 2021, 2025, it's clearly -- it continues to be relevant.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, Mr. [indiscernible], back on the first point, the take-back guarantee for the diesel. This is fully included in our forecast for the current year. It's fully take an account of. Another question related to efficiency measures, let me perhaps give you 1 core example. When we talk about reduction of complexity, which will then actually be translated into euros, then we are also talking about the drive portfolio, which is to be adjusted. If you look at the price list today in the European markets, you'll see the 3 Series, for example, then you've got 10 drive variants available to customers, 5 diesel, 5 petro engines. Now, will we have that in the future as well? Definitely not. But will we be still have diesel and petrol cars in our portfolio and offer them? Definitely yes. But perhaps not necessarily 10 of them.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOMs. Behrmann, if you're still listening, we've briefly have that looked up. We do not have any business relationships with Rusal aluminum. So we have no business relations with them.Operator[Indiscernible]UUnknown AnalystBack on the currency. Mr. Peter, could you explain which currencies these were that created all the headwind? And could you explain your hedging strategy? Has that changed due to the strong euro and if so, to which extent? The other topic is car sharing. Last week, we had from Daimler that they are expecting a real push after that event. Could you give us your perspective and also quantify that one-time evaluation effect once the joint venture is coming and then it's also about saving cost. Could you tell us where exactly you want to save those costs? Is that possibly also reduction of jobs that you're talking about?NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, [indiscernible], first on the currencies. It's renminbi and ruble which have caused us most of the headwind. Will we change our hedging strategy? No, we will not. We've got a very long-term oriented strategy, which is guided by a long-term balance. This is our currency hedging strategy and in the past, this has helped us to get through volatile currency situations in a very safe manner. The next question, effects of the corporation with Daimler. Let me note here, we cannot quantify that yet, simply because we're still waiting for the regulatory approval. Now, in the event that we were to obtain approval, then of course, we would issue a press release right away, but unfortunately, we can't do that before. We are quite optimistic that this has or will be a growth driver. So we are not assuming that any jobs will be lost. This is a business that will grow and not a declining one.OperatorMarco Engemann, dpa-AFX.MMarco Engemann[Indiscernible] also asked about the hedging, but I have yet another question. Revenues -- group revenues as a whole has declined slightly 0.7%, could you explain why? And then Mr. Peter, could you tell us how high is the effect on the EBIT or how high was the currency effect in Q1 on EBIT?NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardYou done with your question?MMarco EngemannYes, yes, I'm done. I'm sorry.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardThe first point, why revenues without FX on a group level, I guess, you'll see the reason -- in the automobile -- in the Automotive segment, we are slightly positive with 1.5% adjusted for currency effects and what's the group effect. Well, that is -- we had strong growth from the China business plus 20% and in our financial results, this is also reflected. Now, FX effects on the EBIT, let me tell you that much for -- well, the effect was a higher 2-digit figure in the first quarter, and as I said, for the overall year, we are expecting something in the mid to upper 3-digit range.OperatorCurrently, I have no further questions. [Operator Instructions] One further question by [indiscernible].UUnknown AnalystNow surprisingly, since we've still got some time left, I'd like to get back to my first question and ask more specifically, where is currently the share of these sales compared to the previous year? And this take-back guarantee, if that's already included in your forecast, which provisions are you actually making for it? What's the calculated amount?HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, the diesel issue, on a global, level in a competitive period 2017, we had a diesel share of 35%, globally that's down to 32%. At the same time, the percentage of electrified increased to 4.2% and the share of petrol cars from 62% to 64%. So that's the global situation. In Europe, it looks like this, percentage of diesel vehicles has declined from 65% to 60%. Petrol increased from 30% to 35% and e-cars from 3% to 6%. So there's a shift into e-mobility and petrol engines, which is nice and help us to achieve our target.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, Mr. [indiscernible], as before I already said a couple of minutes ago, we've got it all covered. It's reflected in our forecast and in the first quarter, but we are not disclosing any amounts or details.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOLet me add, Mr. [indiscernible], we've got positive feedback from our customers about this take-back guarantee and this has convinced customers again buy diesel, so these are the first indications. It's too early to specify any figures, but we've had positive feedback also from dealers. Is still another question?OperatorNext question, Markus Klausen, Dow Jones.MMarkus KlausenBack to currencies and commodities prices. You're saying middle of 2- to 3-digit million range of expenses, what were your plans, was it originally EUR 500 million, is that correct, and then the Great Wall project. How are the talks going? Can you estimate when roughly you will be able to go public with the detailed production sites and so on?HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, Mr. Klausen about Great Wall, we've have to first talks and the talks are intensifying. They will still go on throughout the year. I wouldn't want to make a forecast now as to when we are done. And there are various aspects that we have to discuss in detail, the technical architecture to start with, on the product side, and then later on questions of production site and so on. So this will certainly take a few more, more weeks or month, because we want this to be a successful joint venture.NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, Mr. Klausen, so far, as we also communicated at the Annual Accounts Press Conference in March, we expected effects in the mid 3-digit million range and now, I'm saying mid- to high 3-digit range. What's important here is to note that this does not change our overall guidance for group [ EBIT ] and for automotive EBIT. We've stick to the guidance between 8% to 10%. As an organization, we're just used to dealing with volatile overall conditions. That's the one point. And then on the other hand, only about 1/3 of the year is over yet. So we'll have to see how the next months develop. I'm being told there's one further question.OperatorEdward Taylor, Reuters.EEdward TaylorI've got a question about regulatory in China. The Chinese signaled that they wanted or they might take over to the public by the joint venture partner in future. Now, is that -- does that make a difference with respect to your considerations about joint ventures with Brilliance and Great Wall? And the second question, just to understand this properly, diesel percentage has decreased in Europe. What's that figure end of March or when was that?HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, I'll start -- diesel that was end of March, that was the figure I gave you, that was the comparison of the quarters March 2017 -- Q1 2017 versus Q1 2018. Then on the discussions and the joint venture shares, Brilliance, Great Wall, where with Brilliance, we're connected by or have been in a positive partnership for 15 years, which we want to further develop. These partnerships are not only based on financial topics, it's also technology and the same goes for Great Wall. We haven't finalized the joint venture yet. We've signed a letter of intent. We are having good and fruitful discussions and we want to take both into a positive further development and we are optimistic that the chances of the Chinese market for MINI and for BMW in terms of electrification will be beneficial to us and we will position ourselves there.EEdward TaylorWell, I wanted to know, do you still need a joint venture partner for business in China?NNicolas  PeterCFO & Member of Management BoardWell, Mr. Taylor, what I can tell you is it's much too early to give an estimate here. Kruger, in fact, already gave the necessary answer, but back to Brilliance, let me add this positive partnership and we will celebrate the 15 years in the fall of this year and we will also invite you to come to Shenyang to these celebrations.HHarald  KrügerChairman of Management Board & CEOWell, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, thank you so much for your time today, and I hope you'll have a nice day, but not too much work. Thank you, and see you soon.

Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, good morning, and welcome to our conference call of BMW AG first quarter 2018. We have here have Harald Kruger, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG; and Dr. Nicolas Peter, member of the Board of Management AG, In-Charge of Finance. The gentlemen will start by giving you an overview of the development of business and after that you'll be given an opportunity to ask your questions. So Harald Kruger has the floor.

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The first quarter of 2018 continues to build on our successful 2017 financial year and the BMW Group remains the world's most profitable car company in the world. This underscores our core philosophy. We continue to chart our own core season in a volatile environment, that's our foundation on which we shape future mobility with NUMBER ONE > NEXT. We've got a clear strategy for that. We have once again set the bar even higher with our goals for the current financial year. We're targeting a slight increase in automotive deliveries and a new all-time high. Group earnings before tax at the same high level as last year and an EBIT margin in the Automotive segment within our target range of 8% to 10%. After the first 3 months, we are right on track. For the first time, we delivered more than 600,000 vehicles in the first quarter. Our BMW MINI and BMW Motorrad brands all achieved new first quarter sales highs. We made gains in all major market regions, Asia, including China; Europe including Germany; and the Americas, including the U.S. Our EBIT margin in the Automotive segment is at the high end of our target range at 9.7%. At the same time and to believe this is crucial, we are continuing to invest in our future. We are tackling several key areas at the same time. We will continue to expand the electrification of our portfolio. We will be launching various new models and we're accelerating our autonomous driving activities.First a few words about electrification. I've often said e-mobility growth curve is exponential. This is concerned also by our sales figures for the first quarter compared with the first 3 months of the last year. Between January and March, we sold over 1/3 more electrified vehicles. Sales of our BMW iPerformance plug-in hybrids are up to more than 40%. Our MINI Countryman with plug-in hybrid drivetrain is also in strong demand. In U.S., demand for BMW i, BMW iPerformance and MINI Electric vehicles increased by an impressive 78% during this period. I have stated our goal for the full year very clearly. We aim to sell at least 140,000 electrified vehicles this year. Our new models will help us to achieve this. I'm talking, of course, about the BMW i8 Roadster, very emotional car, and the revised BMW i8 Coupe, which will be launched in May. Both come with the 4th generation of the BMW eDrive technology for plug-in hybrids. This enhances significantly their electric range. You already know that we plan to offer 25 electrified models by 2025, 12 of them purely electric. You can already see what lies ahead this year. We will be presenting 3 all-electric concept vehicles; our new technology flagship, the BMW iNEXT; the BMW i4 as affordable Coupe; and the first fully electric vehicle of our core brand will be the BMW iX3, which I will present -- which I presented in China this April. All these vehicles will go into series production over the next 2 years. The BMW iNext combines the key technologies for future mobility, innovative design, brings these technologies to life.It serves as a modular kit and an innovative enabler for all our future vehicles within the group. We're building the iNext and i4 here in Germany in Dingolfing and in Munich, respectively. On one hand, we're clearly strengthening relevant technologies for future mobility at our home base in Germany. On the other hand, we're focusing on China, as it is the world's biggest market and a real driving force in e-mobility. Through this, we are sending a strong signal for sustainable mobility in China. From 2020, we will be producing our first fully-electric BMW iX3 in Shenyang, which will be the start of using purely electric drivetrains within our core brand. The iX3 will be the first to use our first-generation electric drivetrains. Our customers in China already have 6 electrified models to choose from today. And they also have access to the world's largest network of public charging points. By the end of this year alone, there will be 80,000 ChargeNow charging points in more than 100 cities.We also plan to build pure electric MINI vehicles in China in the future. For this reason, we signed a letter of intent with Great Wall Motor to create a second joint venture in China. And we will continue to work successfully with our joint venture partner BBA, which is now in its 15th year. Now, we'll be adding another local model, the new BMW X3. Starting in summer, this model will also be produced in China, as well as in Spartanburg, in U.S. and in Rosslyn, South Africa to meet worldwide high demand. The xDrive X3 brings the number of BMW models produced in China to 6. With our local partners, the long-term focus is on creating a win-win situation for everyone. China has signaled plans to eliminate tariffs and to open it's also auto-market further. Global thinking and global acting are what have made the BMW Group successful. Our business approach has always been based on free trade and open markets. Customs, duties and trade barriers only divide the world into regions and are not conducive towards global prosperity and worldwide economic development. That is why we will continue to advocate for customs duties to be dismantled. My second point, new models.We're in the middle of Phase 2 of our model initiatives, where the focus is in Luxury and X family. We are in high margins in the segment. Our initiatives were actually from major boost over the coming months from the new BMW X2, the new X4, the BMW X series Coupe, which launches 8 Series range with a total of 6 models. Model updates to 3- and 5-door MINIs and MINI Convertible and the new Rolls-Royce Phantom.Earlier this year, I made a point to meet with our dealers in the U.S. and China. We show them our new models for the coming months. The dealers in both countries, ladies and gentlemen, were extremely pleased, and I could hardly wait to have these new models in their showrooms. New products and new technologies go hand-in-hand with us. And that brings me to my third point, autonomous driving. In April, we officially opened our autonomous driving campus outside Munich. We intend to play a leading role in autonomous driving. And safety remains the absolute priority for us in this technological advancement. Our iNext, which we will launch in 2021, will be fully electric and completely connected. It will not only be partially autonomous but also completely safe. The iNext will be followed by a whole range of additional highly-automated models. For this reason, we're combining all our expertise in the vehicle connectivity and automated driving at the new campus. We'll also be introducing new forms of calibration in a highly-flexible working environment designed for quick decision making. Our new campuses bear the proof that the customers at the center of all that we do to build a base of 100 million active customers by 2025, we will need a complete ecosystem that provides an all-round service to fulfill all our customers' demands need. To strengthen our mobility services, we're combining our business area with those of Daimler AG in a planned joint venture, we'll combine both on-demand mobility offerings on an equal footing. Together we will define the development of services and digitalization in our industry. We wanted to take our customers' experience of premium mobility beyond the vehicle.Ladies and gentlemen, if you can see, we're taking a clear holistic approach towards bringing future mobility into the lives of our customers. And I remain confident that the BMW Group will be in the forefront of these future advancements within our industry and beyond. This is the message I would share with our shareholders at the AGM in 2 weeks' time. And 2018 is set to become another record year. Thank you.

That was Mr. Kruger. Thank you. Now over to Dr. Peter.

Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The BMW Group performed well in the first quarter, fulfilling all our expectations. Our positive operating performance shows our strategy is generating strong results. Group earnings again reached the same high level as last year. The EBIT margin in the Automotive segment rose to 9.7% despite higher R&D costs. We are well positioned in our target range of 8% to 10%.Segment EBIT is on par with the previous year despite high upfront investments and headwinds from currency and commodity prices. We already announced at the Annual Accounts Press Conference that our R&D spending for this year will reach a new record high. We're investing in future projects and expanding our innovation leadership. R&D costs increased by over EUR 100 million in the first quarter.As planned, we were able to partially offset this additional expenditure with internal efficiency improvements. However, as already announced in March, we will see a significant increase in costs in the second half of the year. Negative impact on currency and commodity prices dampened earnings. For the full year, we expect a headwind in the mid- to high 3-digit million euro range due to various economic and political conditions.As part of the transition to the new IFRS 15 accounting standard, certain comparative figures from the previous year had to be adjusted. You will find more details on this in the current quarterly report. First, let's take a closer look at the group figures. First quarter revenues decreased to EUR 22.69 billion. Adjusted for negative currency effects, they were approximately on par with the previous year. Group earnings before tax totaled EUR 3.17 billion, which is on par with the high level of the previous year. The EBT margin was 13.9%. The higher financial result reflects the positive earnings contribution of our Chinese joint venture and valuation effects from the acquisition of DriveNow among other factors. In line with the strong business performance, Group net profit rose slightly to EUR 2.3 billion.Ladies and gentlemen, we are strengthening our product portfolio this year. This includes renewing and expanding X family as well as our product initiatives in the Luxury segment. When it comes to future technologies, we are also competing in the Champions League. Our newly opened autonomous driving campus and our battery cell competence center underline this commitment. Flexibility is an essential component of this. It is what makes us robust and competitive. As part of our continuing strategic development, we invested almost EUR 130 million more in the first quarter than in the same period of 2017, a total investment of around EUR 734 million. As a result, the CapEx ratio rose to 3.2%. For the full year, we expect the ratio of up to 5%. We will therefore continue to remain within our long-term target range.As announced, R&D expenditure also remained at a high level. It totaled EUR 1.27 billion for the year to the end of March. Due to high upfront investments in new products and technologies, we expect this figure to reach around EUR 7 billion over the course of the year. The R&D ratio currently stands at 5.6%; the figure for the full-year 2018 will be between 6.5% and 7%.Let's take a look at the Automotive segment. In the first quarter of 2018, global sales performed well, increasing by 3%. A strong euro meant that segment revenues were slightly lower than the previous year. Adjusted for currency effects, revenues were up 1.5%. The segment EBIT of EUR 1.88 billion was on par with the previous year, despite higher R&D costs and headwinds from currency and commodity prices. This was offset somewhat by positive effects from volume mix, market and efficiency improvements. The financial results once again contributed to the positive pre-tax earnings.Our Chinese joint venture, BBA, increased its earnings contribution to EUR 240 million. Sales in the joint venture climbed 20% in the year to the end of March. The X1 and the new 5 Series, in particular, are highly popular. The valuation effect from the acquisition of DriveNow also had a positive effect. This was offset by a similarly high positive valuation effect from the previous year in connection with new investors acquiring a stake in the marketing service here. Pre-tax earnings amounted to EUR 2.28 billion.Ladies and gentlemen, these figures underline that our core business is built on a very solid foundation. At the end of the first quarter, despite a planned significantly higher accumulation of working capital, free cash flow stood at EUR 302 million. For the full year, we continue to target a free cash flow of more than EUR 3 billion. In the Financial Services segment, the total portfolio of customer financing contracts reached almost EUR 5 million. In the first quarter, 47.3% of all BMW Group new vehicles were leased or financed by the Financial Services segment. Almost 452,000 new contracts were concluded with retail customers. The segment's risk situation remains stable.Overall, used car prices are trending downward slightly in international markets as expected. We place a strong emphasis on proactive risk management. We evaluate our portfolio on a regular basis so that we can make adequate provisions for our business risks at all times.Let's now move on to the Motorcycles segment. Almost 36,000 motorcycles were delivered to customers in the first 3 months of 2018. Revenues were 15.5% lower than the previous year at EUR 524 million. Due to the ramp-up of new models, including the impact of various model changeovers, total production declined in the first quarter. Consequently, sales to the retail organization, which forms the basis for revenue recognition, also decreased.Currency effects also had a negative impact. As a result to segment's operating earnings for the first quarter were lower than in the previous year. The EBIT margin was 14.7%.Now, the outlook for the full year. As long as political and economic conditions do not deteriorate significantly, we expect positive business development in 2018. We are targeting Group earnings before tax at least on par with the high level of the previous year. In late March, BMW AG and Daimler AG signed an agreement to combine their mobility services. If approved by the relevant authorities in the course of this year, the formation of the joint venture will trigger a one-time valuation and earnings effect in the BMW AG's Group financial statement and thus leads to an adjustment of the company's guidance. Under these circumstances, pre-tax earnings on group level would increase slightly in 2018 compared with the previous year.In the Automotive segment, we anticipate a slight increase in deliveries and revenues for 2018. Despite high upfront investments, we still aim to keep the EBIT margin between 8% and 10%. We now expect a slight increase in deliveries in the Motorcycles segment in 2018. Our target for the EBIT margin remains unchanged at between 8% and 10%. In the Financial Services segment, we expect return on equity to exceed our new target figure of 14%.Ladies and gentlemen, the BMW Group is on course to meet its guidance for the full year. In 2018, we will continue to make important strategic decisions. And as you know, whatever we start is well thought through and we implement it sustainably. In such a volatile environment, our core business delivers the highest level of performance quarter-by-quarter. This gives us the freedom we need to continue investing in our future. Thank you.

Thank you, Mr. Peter, colleagues. We now have time to take your questions. I'd like to ask colleagues to provide you with the technical details for the conference.

[Operator Instructions] First question, Edward Taylor, Reuters.

Two questions. Can you tell me something about possible depreciation of the leasing portfolio in connection with diesel? Can you quantify it? And second question, Mr. Kruger, over the course of the year, you wanted to give us an update on possible plant in Russia, any news on this?

Well, question was about the plant in Russia. We are in ongoing discussions with the province and the government in Kaliningrad and the central government. Decision has not been taken yet. And our plans are making further progress. Well, decisions haven't been taken yet. I don't know yet when they will be taken.

The development on the used car markets in Europe in the first quarter 2018 was more or less as expected, similar as 2017, and especially in Germany and in England, we had a declining share of diesel cars. As you know, we systematically make extra provisions take precautions also in our Financial Services closing. So we had -- we saw no need to take extraordinary measures in the first quarter 2018. We do think we're right on track because we can see that the share of Euro 5 and 4 vehicles in the leasing portfolio decreases month by month. We've [ practically ] got no further Euro 4 vehicles in our portfolio and across all Europe, not just in relation to one market. We are at 2-digit thousand number in Europe as far as the Euro 4 diesels are concerned.

[indiscernible].

I have a question. It's about the investigations in the diesel case and the diesel fraud. How safe is our annual forecast in view of probable fines that might be imposed and which could be quite high?

I'll pass that to our CFO, Mr. Peter.

Well, Mr. [indiscernible], you already saw this in our annual accounts for 2017 due to the current situation. We are not able to make a forecast at all relating to this question. This is an ongoing investigation. We are cooperating with the authorities and as soon as there is any news then we would inform to public, of course.

Elisabeth Behrmann, Bloomberg News.

I have 3 questions. You mentioned currency effects and commodity prices as headwinds this year. Could you provide more details, how much of it is commodity prices, how much of it is currency effects and which commodities or raw materials specifically create the headwind? And then I'd like to know about the situation within the aluminum manufacturer, Rusal.

What's the name again?

Rusal, where sanctions have been -- currently been imposed.

Well, to be honest, we haven't heard the name before -- Rusal?

I'm surprised that it doesn't mean anything to you, but whatever.

No, I must admit. I guess I can speak for everyone here. It's not an issue with us anyway. Now for the rest of the question or the first part of the question, I'd like to pass that to Mr. Peter.

Well, Ms. Behrmann, rough division between currency effects and raw materials, 2/3 currency, 1/3 commodity prices or raw materials. And for the materials, it's in particular, steel and plastics that have a negative impact.

Markus Fasse, Handelsblatt.

I've got 2 questions. First question, how long do you still want to continue with your R&D expenses? They are significantly high; 2025 by then you want to have 12 new electrified models on the market. If I have understood you correctly, this year and next year, these expenses are to remain at a high level and then taper out. How do you want to do this, if you continue to launch that many new electrified models? That was my first question. Second question again relates to diesel. We've seen the judgment in [ Leipsic ] and after that the discussion somewhat slowed as far as driving bans are concerned. My question, what's your estimate of the situation? Bans on diesel cars, is that off the table, is that discussion over or will that discussion continue?

Well, Mr. Fasse, on you question, the diesel bans, well, the judgment, if you read that closely, then it's all a question of proportionality which the court focused on. So in that respect, this is something that cities will then have to decide, based on the principle of proportionality, whether they want to introduce such bans or not. I've always said and the government also says that driving bans are the not right thing to do. We want to instead promote infrastructure for further electromobility, promote electromobility in generally and then we have an approach that is definitely more sustainable for Germany and the world. The second point, of course, the quality of the air in towns and cities over the past few months has improved. So the number of towns that are still relevant for such a ban is decreasing. So with concerted action, we can consistently pursue that path.

Thank you. Mr. Peter, on the R&D expenses?

Well, Mr. Fasse, the point that you are mentioning, I think, it shows quite impressively the operative performance, strengths of our company. Despite all the expenses in R&D, we are able to establish ourselves in the upper range of our corridor between 8% and 10%. And we're also confirming the guidance for the current year. Why are we also optimistically looking into the future? So once the generation 5 is in the market, question is whether we can then somehow decrease our R&D expenditure. Well, there's 2 reasons for this assumption. We'll be launching models that have a strong contribution margin. And X3 has just been launched, X5 is coming towards the end of the year. Then, early next year, the X7; between that, there will be the 8. All of these are products in the upper price segment. And in addition, as already mentioned several times, we're also working on a number of efficiency measures and in particular, on the reduction of the complexity in our product portfolio and product offering. And this will have positive effects on R&D and it will also have positive effects on the entire value chain. Mr. Kruger, you're adding something.

Yes. I'd like to add something. I've already said this on the Annual Accounts Press Conference, we've got clear cost benefits changing to generation 5 and now, we've got a modular kit that we can use across all products and product lines. So we will be benefiting from economies of scales in electromobility.

[Indiscernible]

I've got 3 questions. The first one, as it take-back guarantee for diesel vehicles that you're currently using an advertising, did you have to make extra provisions for that or how do you calculate it? Do you expect you actually have to pay something? Then back to the diesel, Porsche currently wants to revise this type of drive, they are saying, its possible do this with fairly little effort. What are your talks with Porsche? Are you convinced of the concept? Will BMW implement the concept? And then have [indiscernible], you pointed out a couple times already today there is efficiency measures, which enable you to offset those high R&D expenses and also the currency effects headwind or if not offset at least limits. I wonder what exactly are these savings; perhaps you can explain that a little.

Well, as a starting point, let me say I have a very clear position. I still believe in the diesel technology as a technology for the future and if you look at our 520 or 530d, if you drive that today, it's one of the best diesels in the world. What Porsche has presented or suggested from my point of view is an interesting approach that we will further pursue that, we will have a look at, but we're not only talking with Porsche, the further development of the technology to us is always an important topic and also to do this with partners and there are certainly plenty of potential in this, that certainly something which we welcome. But we'll have to drill a little deeper and have more discussions, not only with Porsche, also with other companies on how we further develop diesel, but for CO2, 2021, 2025, it's clearly -- it continues to be relevant.

Well, Mr. [indiscernible], back on the first point, the take-back guarantee for the diesel. This is fully included in our forecast for the current year. It's fully take an account of. Another question related to efficiency measures, let me perhaps give you 1 core example. When we talk about reduction of complexity, which will then actually be translated into euros, then we are also talking about the drive portfolio, which is to be adjusted. If you look at the price list today in the European markets, you'll see the 3 Series, for example, then you've got 10 drive variants available to customers, 5 diesel, 5 petro engines. Now, will we have that in the future as well? Definitely not. But will we be still have diesel and petrol cars in our portfolio and offer them? Definitely yes. But perhaps not necessarily 10 of them.

Ms. Behrmann, if you're still listening, we've briefly have that looked up. We do not have any business relationships with Rusal aluminum. So we have no business relations with them.

[Indiscernible]

Back on the currency. Mr. Peter, could you explain which currencies these were that created all the headwind? And could you explain your hedging strategy? Has that changed due to the strong euro and if so, to which extent? The other topic is car sharing. Last week, we had from Daimler that they are expecting a real push after that event. Could you give us your perspective and also quantify that one-time evaluation effect once the joint venture is coming and then it's also about saving cost. Could you tell us where exactly you want to save those costs? Is that possibly also reduction of jobs that you're talking about?

Well, [indiscernible], first on the currencies. It's renminbi and ruble which have caused us most of the headwind. Will we change our hedging strategy? No, we will not. We've got a very long-term oriented strategy, which is guided by a long-term balance. This is our currency hedging strategy and in the past, this has helped us to get through volatile currency situations in a very safe manner. The next question, effects of the corporation with Daimler. Let me note here, we cannot quantify that yet, simply because we're still waiting for the regulatory approval. Now, in the event that we were to obtain approval, then of course, we would issue a press release right away, but unfortunately, we can't do that before. We are quite optimistic that this has or will be a growth driver. So we are not assuming that any jobs will be lost. This is a business that will grow and not a declining one.

Marco Engemann, dpa-AFX.

[Indiscernible] also asked about the hedging, but I have yet another question. Revenues -- group revenues as a whole has declined slightly 0.7%, could you explain why? And then Mr. Peter, could you tell us how high is the effect on the EBIT or how high was the currency effect in Q1 on EBIT?

You done with your question?

Yes, yes, I'm done. I'm sorry.

The first point, why revenues without FX on a group level, I guess, you'll see the reason -- in the automobile -- in the Automotive segment, we are slightly positive with 1.5% adjusted for currency effects and what's the group effect. Well, that is -- we had strong growth from the China business plus 20% and in our financial results, this is also reflected. Now, FX effects on the EBIT, let me tell you that much for -- well, the effect was a higher 2-digit figure in the first quarter, and as I said, for the overall year, we are expecting something in the mid to upper 3-digit range.

Currently, I have no further questions. [Operator Instructions] One further question by [indiscernible].

Now surprisingly, since we've still got some time left, I'd like to get back to my first question and ask more specifically, where is currently the share of these sales compared to the previous year? And this take-back guarantee, if that's already included in your forecast, which provisions are you actually making for it? What's the calculated amount?

Well, the diesel issue, on a global, level in a competitive period 2017, we had a diesel share of 35%, globally that's down to 32%. At the same time, the percentage of electrified increased to 4.2% and the share of petrol cars from 62% to 64%. So that's the global situation. In Europe, it looks like this, percentage of diesel vehicles has declined from 65% to 60%. Petrol increased from 30% to 35% and e-cars from 3% to 6%. So there's a shift into e-mobility and petrol engines, which is nice and help us to achieve our target.

Well, Mr. [indiscernible], as before I already said a couple of minutes ago, we've got it all covered. It's reflected in our forecast and in the first quarter, but we are not disclosing any amounts or details.

Let me add, Mr. [indiscernible], we've got positive feedback from our customers about this take-back guarantee and this has convinced customers again buy diesel, so these are the first indications. It's too early to specify any figures, but we've had positive feedback also from dealers. Is still another question?

Next question, Markus Klausen, Dow Jones.

Back to currencies and commodities prices. You're saying middle of 2- to 3-digit million range of expenses, what were your plans, was it originally EUR 500 million, is that correct, and then the Great Wall project. How are the talks going? Can you estimate when roughly you will be able to go public with the detailed production sites and so on?

Well, Mr. Klausen about Great Wall, we've have to first talks and the talks are intensifying. They will still go on throughout the year. I wouldn't want to make a forecast now as to when we are done. And there are various aspects that we have to discuss in detail, the technical architecture to start with, on the product side, and then later on questions of production site and so on. So this will certainly take a few more, more weeks or month, because we want this to be a successful joint venture.

Well, Mr. Klausen, so far, as we also communicated at the Annual Accounts Press Conference in March, we expected effects in the mid 3-digit million range and now, I'm saying mid- to high 3-digit range. What's important here is to note that this does not change our overall guidance for group [ EBIT ] and for automotive EBIT. We've stick to the guidance between 8% to 10%. As an organization, we're just used to dealing with volatile overall conditions. That's the one point. And then on the other hand, only about 1/3 of the year is over yet. So we'll have to see how the next months develop. I'm being told there's one further question.

Edward Taylor, Reuters.

I've got a question about regulatory in China. The Chinese signaled that they wanted or they might take over to the public by the joint venture partner in future. Now, is that -- does that make a difference with respect to your considerations about joint ventures with Brilliance and Great Wall? And the second question, just to understand this properly, diesel percentage has decreased in Europe. What's that figure end of March or when was that?

Well, I'll start -- diesel that was end of March, that was the figure I gave you, that was the comparison of the quarters March 2017 -- Q1 2017 versus Q1 2018. Then on the discussions and the joint venture shares, Brilliance, Great Wall, where with Brilliance, we're connected by or have been in a positive partnership for 15 years, which we want to further develop. These partnerships are not only based on financial topics, it's also technology and the same goes for Great Wall. We haven't finalized the joint venture yet. We've signed a letter of intent. We are having good and fruitful discussions and we want to take both into a positive further development and we are optimistic that the chances of the Chinese market for MINI and for BMW in terms of electrification will be beneficial to us and we will position ourselves there.

Well, I wanted to know, do you still need a joint venture partner for business in China?

Well, Mr. Taylor, what I can tell you is it's much too early to give an estimate here. Kruger, in fact, already gave the necessary answer, but back to Brilliance, let me add this positive partnership and we will celebrate the 15 years in the fall of this year and we will also invite you to come to Shenyang to these celebrations.

Well, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, thank you so much for your time today, and I hope you'll have a nice day, but not too much work. Thank you, and see you soon.

All Transcripts2024Q-12023Q-3Q-2Q-12022Q-4Q-3Q-12021Q-3Q-12020Q-3Q-2Q-12019Q-3Q-2Q-12018Q-3Q-2Q-12017Q-4Back to Top

