[ Okay. And I think people overlooked a little bit, which was the fact that the mark-to-market of available-for-sale securities have basically weighed on the equity, impacting negatively all the banks during the quarter. And I would like to understand the drivers behind of it. Because available-for-sale -- securities available-for-sale in the bank's balance sheets are basically debentures, right? So are basically credit risk. Usually, high-quality credit risk, which are being only mark-to-market because the rates move up during this crisis. And if there is no problem, right, regarding the credit quality of these usually AAA securities we would probably have a positive impact when the rates normalize again. So just wanted to understand if this is the case, if we are talking about the impact of BRL 1.7 billion negative during the quarter is about the repricing or mark-to-market of the debentures? And if these debentures are really long-term and are really high-quality? Or if there was any other securities that weighed on the equity as well? Okay. To be very frank, we had some impacts in mark to market as you can see on Page 18, about 26 basis points. Our security portfolio has -- doesn't have a larger concentration of private securities. I'd say that most of the mark to market came from the product securities since we had some shocks. But the concentration -- the participation of the private securities in the case of the bank is not so large. We have, for instance, the case of the portfolio in debentures, about BRL 25 billion. And just to give you the reference in terms of mark-to-market, we had mark-to-market for private securities of BRL 1.5 billion. And for the public securities, it was around BRL 706 million. About the credit quality, there, they have good credit quality. Actually, what happens is that we have a shock in the market. Behind mainly the prices of those assets certainly, they had some impact. But credit-wise, this is not a major concern for us. Our next question comes from [ Giovanna Harley ] from Bank of America. I have 2 questions as well. The first one is related to the NIM. You had a benefit in your funding cost related to the decreasing of the judicial deposit costs. So all the impact happened already in the first Q? Or should we expect further impacts going forward? Also, on the NII, how do you expect it's evolved through the year, taking into consideration the change in mix that we should probably see going forward? And my second question is regarding the NPL formation. Can we expect the NPL formation coverage to continue to be above 100% as NPLs will probably take longer to appear given the grace periods you are offering to your clients? So should we continue to see you provision ahead of NPLs? Okay, [ Giovanna ]. Let me start with the NIM and the NII behavior. As we said since the -- when we started -- when we deliver the guidance for this year, one major contribution for the NII would come from the funding side, and certainly the judicial deposits. We made some renegotiations last year with important courts. This decreases the cost while adjusting the cost to the real. And this is one of the positive aspects here. I would say that we got part of this benefit, probably have some more to come, but it's minor. Probably in the next quarter, you're going to see more impacts, for instance, mainly in the second quarter coming from the reduction in the base rate. By the way, just to give back information about this. Judicial deposits usually, we negotiate in a long-term deal, and we had some contracts that we hired -- we granted in the past, considering some scenarios of Selic rates with a fixed components. At the moment, the Selic rate starts to go down, down, down, this fixed component starts to gain more relevance in the cost. And for that reason, the cost of deposits starts to grow. And what we made is basically a negotiation in bringing economically equilibrium Previ and bringing some -- these compensation as a percentage of the variable costs of the Selic rate and this is basically the dynamics for this year. And certainly, yes, this will help NII, and this will help means as we expect.On the other hand, the -- we have some aspects that probably could put some pressure in, certainly, at the base rate and this goes straight to the treasury results. Having less treasury results, and certainly, we expect to have lower treasury results relatively to the historical numbers because the rate is much lower. This tends to reduce uncertainly. Just remind you that 2019, we had a threshold much higher than our historical numbers. Then we expect for 2020, a lower treasury even compared to the historical numbers. Then this is some of the effect that it certainly brings the different dynamics for NII needs. But just fine-tuning some perspectives that I had the opportunity to pass to the market previously that we have been expecting NIMs and for the year from stable to gradual increase. Adjusting this perception, we expect NIMs for 2020 from stable to gradual reduction. This depends on how those variables will behave, certainly because we have some structural positions as the asset and liability positions of assets at fixed rates and liabilities at floating rates. At the moment, if the base rate goes down, then certainly, we can't -- this benefit means. But this depends on how fast the asset will be repriced. Then this goes to the first question and the importance of the restructuring of those contracts for the behavior of our margin.Secondly, about NPL, what we can expect of NPL. Banco do Brasil is conservative in terms of managing risk. And I think what we showed in the first quarter is a good proxy on how we see this. Because what we did, we anticipated some of the impacts, because looking at our balance sheet, NPLs were behaving well. We are expecting improving the NPLs, certainly, because these NPLs represents the reality of 90 days ago, and the impact of COVID-19, it's not fully -- it's not given in the balance sheet. And what is the stance of the bank trying to anticipate as we did part of this in more anticipation, you can expect then probably the past is a good proxy on how we can look at the management of the bank in a very prudent and conservative way ahead. Did I address your points? Yes. [ A couple of questions. I guess, a follow-up in terms of asset quality and provisions, I know it's hard to say how bad things could get. But just to put into perspective, right, if we look at the cost of risk this quarter was around 3.5%. If we look back at prior crises, right, looking back in 2016, I think the cost of risk peaked at around 4.7% in early 2016. If you go back a bit further to like 2008, 2009, the cost of risk maybe peaking at 4%. How do we think about this crisis in comparison to previous crisis? And how much your cost of risk and NPLs can increase? If you can maybe give some color, I think, at least to put in perspective, would be helpful. And then I have a second question on loan growth asset. Okay. Tito, I think that is a fair question. First of all, it's hard to create parallels to this shock. Because certainly, there are components that we've never seen as this. For that reason -- exactly for that reason, we suspended guidance. Certainly, we have our internal metrics. We are following up with the behavior of those metrics, but it's hard because the variables are changing every week or I'm not saying every day. And then this makes quite difficult. But probably I can answer your question just showing what are the differences in our portfolio. First of all, we have a deep portfolio that is more defensive relativity to the portfolios we had in the past, including -- we understand that relatively to the system. First of all, we have 25% in agribusiness. The perspectives of the business are quite well. Prices for the main commodities is behaving well. For those ones that they had some reduction, this was compensated by the tax. And looking at the costs of the producers that are either in dollars or even in dollars, but they were locked with the lower dollar or even in reais that is even better, margin tends to be quite well for the producers. And for these molecules that you have, certainly, we have ways of addressing it. Then this is not a real aspect, but only Banco do Brasil has this portion -- this composition of the portfolio. When we go to the individuals portfolio that represents the other 1/3 of the total portfolio. Our growth, we had increase in the participation of the nonpayroll loan business. Where we have 1/3 of this individuals portfolio comprised by payroll loan. And just reminding that roughly 90% of this portfolio is payroll loans to public service that we have profitability. Then certainly, the biggest risk we have in this scenario is unemployments increasing. And for this, in a certain way, we have some mitigation for this process due to the structure. And when we go to the company's portfolio, comparing to 2016, for instance, we had the larger portfolio, and we had some concentration with some groups. And we have lower portfolio, we decreased this portfolio. We're cleaning up this portfolio in the last years. We started growing this portfolio last year. And the companies that are in this portfolio, we have long-term relationships with them. We know them very well in a different risk profile compared to the past. And in addition to this, we have a quite good guaranteed package for those business. Then saying that, I think that is a quite important asset just to say that we are in better shape for facing this crisis. Even when we consider concentration, you can look at the concentration of groups that we used in the last few years. Another important information in terms of collateralization of security. Roughly 65% of our portfolio we have guarantees -- is comprised by companies with guarantees. And we have additional 15% that we have in sort of mitigators, then only 20% of this portfolio, we have no guarantee. But again, we see a very serious shock in the future. NPL tends to go out -- to go up in the system. But we understand that we are quite well prepared for this moment, even comparing to the last moments. Then this is basically -- although we don't have the final numbers, this is our perception, why we understand that we are -- I don't think we did it but more prepared for this scenario. Did I address your point? Yes, I think that's very helpful for me to put in perspective. Okay. And then my second question on loan growth, right? As expected, your corporate loans went up quite a bit in the quarter, but you're still growing your loan portfolio less than private sectors peers. So just to think about going forward, how we might see your loan growth evolve, right? I mean, some of that was just corporate seeking liquidity. So that demand probably goes away. But do you also facing any pressure from the government to lend more? Thinking about your loan growth compared to private sector banks, could you see a scenario where you start to increase, while they decrease going forward? Or just help us with your -- kind of your loan growth outlook in perspective given the environment and the moving parts would be helpful. Okay, Tito. First of all, the corporate governance of the bank is quite strict and the decisions that we take are our business decisions. Although we are controlled by the government, having 50% of the shares, we have the other 50% comprised by more than 500,000 shareholders. And the corporate governance of the bank is picked up much more as a corporation. Then I would say that the decisions are taken are our business decisions. And by the way, another thing that is important to remark about the corporate governance of the bank. We have 8 Board members. From the 8 Board members, we have 6 Board members that -- sorry, 5 Board members that they are Independent Board members. Then this shows how important is this to give -- to insulate the institution on those aspects that you mentioned. About the credit growth I would say that, first of all, we had part of this credit growth that is a consequence of the FX movement, as I describe it. But when we look at basically the growth that we are observing, we observe it in the SME and the individuals. It's quite consistent on what we have been presenting into the markets. The difference in this quarter was basically the growth for the large corporates. But this we see as -- I don't see an opportunity, but as a situation we saw in the market. In the end, the large corporate, so the companies, the large companies or medium-sized companies, they are our customers. The difference is we have been channeling those credits to get them off because it was more cost effectively for the customers. And for the bank strategy, we moved from a balance sheet business towards a fee business. As the market shut down, certainly, they continue to be our customers, they have their needs, and we are a relationship bank. We saw an opportunity to fill this gap for those customers. And however, this is important, including to guarantee that we are present in the nonbase in the future when they come back to the market. This is consistent with the strategy of the bank of relationships. How we -- again, I know that it's hard to talk about the future. But some of the aspects that we can expect about the dynamics of the credit portfolio, it didn't change the approach to increase the participation of prepay it. It's only temporarily that we had this situation. We expect that this will flow back to the capital markets. It's hard to say if this is going to be in the second quarter, third quarter or fourth quarter. But at some time, this will happen. The characteristics of those transactions are much more short term. You can expect more demand coming from the agribusiness. As I said, even though with the shock with the depression, I can say, I can describe it this way, this segment tends to continue to be active. In the end, boards and Brazil needs to be set. And this segment has an important goal to preserve food safety -- or food security in this process. And for the SME, I would say that we saw some demand beginning this crisis, but much more demand to expand the transactions in less demand for new money. And we expect for -- for instance, for individuals, more demand coming from payrolls. And then, we see some growth for the portfolio, but probably differently from the way we guided when we started the year. [ Yes. Daniel, I have one question. I understand that the Congress in Brazil approved a plan for the Central Bank to purchase domestic corporate bonds. And I wanted to ask you if you would anticipate participating on this program to issue domestic bonds to be bought by the Central Bank? I guess, their rational here is due to lower yields and increased liquidity in the secondary market in Brazil. And also, if this changes in any way your outlook to potentially issue U.S. dollar bonds later this year? And also, any color you can have in terms of the size of this program, when it will be implemented, how long it would last? Any color would be helpful to me. First of all, about the behavior of Central Bank. Central Bank was quite fast in using all the measures to bring liquidity for the system. Certainly, reducing reserve requirements, adjusting the capital needs for the system and mainly providing liquidity for the system. This is one important aspect. Another thing that I think this is common in U.S. and Europe, but this is happening for the first time in Brazil, the possibility of Central Bank buying private bonds in this process. This is important also when you have more private funds in the system and certainly, when you have some shocks of liquidity in other markets that Central Bank doesn't have [ demands for that ]. And this to provide the liquidity for the system is quite relevant.In terms of participation, I would say that no, there is no anticipation and all of that movement that we're observing is basically what we -- as I said, it was based on the demand of the customers. Certainly, these could bring different dynamics, but I think that it's early to say. We probably -- we will need more time to see how this is going to work.To be very frank, I think that for the system, it's quite important to have this possibility. This facility was used in other parts of the world and showed a very prudential way of managing liquidity in the system.About the second part, sorry, I forgot about the possibility of issuing bonds. Certainly, the bank is quite liquid in foreign currency. And by the way, we had some payments, some transactions that was in the market. We have the call that will happen in October this year for one old style Tier 1. Once Brazil refunded those transactions and the funding structure of the bank is quite satisfied, then we have certain capital markets. We have interbank markets. We have all the markets that we reached funding, including [indiscernible], for instance, including in the German markets, for instance, we access some pockets of liquids like should shine or things like that because we are in that low market spend. This is quite diversified source of funds. Then the bank has always analyzed those instrument and how we can launch -- how we can manage at the best price and the best conditions. Then this is how we always look at this. It's hard to say if we were going to do something or not, but we are taking this into consideration. Okay. So to summarize, you already prefunded the call of the 8.5 curve in October, the $850 million. And at this point, you don't expect to issue in the U.S. dollar market this year? I would say that mainly with the dislocation of the curves that we have, it's less likely. But again, this is very live situation. We prefund it, and we don't -- we have resources to make the payments. But certainly, it's a question of opportunity. Understanding, we want to be present in the markets to have our bonds being negotiated, but it's a question of having the funds to use it, having the usage for those funds and certain pricing. And then we are observing this, but we have nothing decided at this point. Our next question comes from Natalia Corfield from JPMorgan. I'm going to go back a little bit to your core equity. You have a much better performance than your peers, your private peers in this quarter. But I'm wondering how we can think about this ratio going forward in 2020? I've seen that in the presentation, you still kept the NIM CET1 of 11% in January 2022. But for this year specifically, how do you see the evolution of this ratio, considering your loan growth, considering that dividends are capped this year? How can we think about it? And what kind of surprise -- negative surprise could we see in terms of mark-to-market or Previ going through the year? So again, it's hard to give a projection. We are navigating 4 quarters. As I said, the 11% is targeted as we always take into consideration that is included in our corporate documents. For this year, as you said, we had a reduction in the payout ratio to what is established in our bylaws. Then this adds more capital retention in this process. The bank is quite conservative in terms of market risk and some mark-to-market, you can expect, but depending on the market conditions, but no shocks. Something that was one of the detractors in the system was basically the impact of the fiscal hedging. And by the way, we have a much lower -- much smaller investment abroad and the impact was lower for us. For the actuarial position, certainly, we are following up this quite closely. And it's a bit -- it's hard to give you a projection. But one thing is what -- and this is one important variable is how the curve will behave. To be very frank, it will be a surprise if we see more reduction in the long end of the curve, the long end of the curve we had a movement in the curve. It tends to be a little bit higher, mainly when you have more uncertainty. Then in all scenarios that we are running, we are showing comfortable capital base to face our needs and still be on the business. But this is one important aspect to the way we launched capital. It's always a forward-looking approach. We have a very well-defined thresholds in our corporate governance. We project our capital on a regular basis in the next 3 years in different scenarios. And when we see some of our targets being issued, we had time in anticipation for starting -- taking actions to reach those targets. Good example of this was in the past when we had more leverage, and we had the implementation of Basel III that is what's challenging worldwide. And we were able to do it -- this in a very disciplined pace. Then this is exactly what you can expect on our side. All right. And just on the fiscal hedge that you had a lower impact, can you just explain how exactly that works? Pardon me. Can you say it again? On the fiscal hedge that you have lower impact than your peers and help your capitalization. Can you just remind me how exactly it works? Okay. Because you have a different tax treatment, for instance, the investments you have abroad you have no taxation for the tax changes. However, to hedge this position, you need to find liabilities. However, those liabilities, you have tax impact. Just roughly, let's assume that I have 100 in my investment and I hedge this position with another position at 100. And I have a change, a variation of 10%. It means that mine or our valuation of the currency means that I'm going to have a hit of 10% in my assets and my derivative of my instrument in the liability would have -- would compensate this with 10%. But since you have not a synchronism to the taxation, having the liability taxable, this 10% converts into 5%, then we're not fully hedged. The way to address this is to build an over hedge. And then to hedge this 100, you need to have 100 and something just for the P&L to compensate this. This additional tax credit or tax impact goes against capital, because you have a different treatment for [ 170 ] for tax credits.The situation of Banco do Brasil, we have roughly BRL 20 billion investments abroad. BRL 20 billion -- which is BRL 20 billion. When we compare to the different major players, they have usually 4x of this. Then we have some impact going in the credentials. But we tend not to having the same expansion because the level of investments we have abroad is lower. By the way, there is some changes being discussed in the conference. We need to observe this changing this taxation. And in doing this, this will bring some -- the same pace for assets and liabilities. And tends to reduce this effect in the P&L and the overhedging. I know that it was too technical, but what -- am I able to give all the color about these movements? Yes, you did. Mr. Daniel Maria will proceed with his concluding remarks. We continue -- available for any remaining questions. And And by the way, keep safe. As a reminder, the material used in this conference call is available on Banco do Brasil Investor Relations website.